---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Project Structure

The project structure will look like this:

```
.
├── cmd
│   ├── root.go
│   └── serve.go
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── internals
│   ├── core
│   │   ├── entity
│   │   │   └── ping.go
│   │   └── serr
│   │       └── ping.go
│   ├── http
│   │   ├── handler
│   │   │   └── ping.go
│   │   ├── handler_test
│   │   │   └── ping_test.go
│   │   ├── helpers
│   │   │   └── ping.go
│   │   └── transport
│   │       └── ping.go
│   ├── service
│   │   └── ping.go
│   ├── service_test
│   │   └── ping_test.go
│   └── storage
│       └── pingStorage
│           ├── ping.go
│           └── pingQueries.go
├── main.go
├── makefile
├── public
│   ├── assets
│   │   ├── script.js
│   │   └── styles.css
│   └── templates
│       └── index.html
├── README.md
└── server
    ├── infra
    │   ├── config.go
    │   ├── constants.go
    │   ├── db
    │   │   └── sqlite.go
    │   └── logger.go
    ├── middleware
    │   └── middleware.go
    ├── routing
    │   ├── ping.go
    │   └── initRoutes.go
    └── setup.go
```

## About the structure.

The philosophy behind this project structure is to parition between different segments such as 

- Core : Core data structures and interfaces for each modules.
- Service : Business logic for each modules
- Storage : Storage implementation for each modules
- Http : Http handler functions for each modules which process the request and response

The core package must not import other packages but can be a dependency for other segments of the app. Service, Storage, and Http packages shouldn't directly import each other; they connect through dependency injection at the routing level.

Then, the server level concerns such as routing, middleware, and infrastructure are separated from the core logic.

### Internals

The internals directory contains the application logic and http , organized into various segments:
- Entity & Errors
- Http Handlers & Helpers
- Service
- Storage

Structure:

- `internals/core`
  - `/entity` - Primary data structures and interfaces for each modules.
  - `/serr`  - Server specific errors for each modules.
- `internals/http`
  - `/handler` - Http handler functions for each modules which process the request and response. Implements the interfaces defined in `internals/core/entity` for each modules.
  - `/helpers` - Helper functions for http handlers, for each modules.
  - `/transport` - Data structure and Functions related to http response, for each modules.
- `internals/service` - Business logic for each modules. Implements the interfaces defined in `internals/core/entity` for each modules.
- `internals/storage`
  - /`<module-name>Storage` - Storage implementation for each modules, Initialize and implement the storage interface defined in `internals/core/entity` for each modules.


---

### Server

The server directory contains logic related to platform level concerns, such as:
- Server configurations
- Middleware
- Routing
- Infrastructure

Structure:

- `server/infra` - Server configurations and constants.
- `server/middleware` - Middleware functions for the server.
- `server/routing` - Routing logic for the server, Binds the http handlers to the routes for each Modules.
- `server/server.go` - Server initialization and start logic.

---

### Cmd

- `cmd` - Command line interface related files (using Cobra CLI).
  - `cmd/root.go` - Root command for the project.
  - `cmd/serve.go` - Serve command runs the server, starts the server in configured port.

---

### Public

- `public` 
  - `/assets` - Static assets such as css and javascript.
  - `/templates` - Static templates for the server ( used for rendering html pages ).
  
---

### Platform Configurations

- `.github/workflows` 
  
  For github workflows, The default workflow for build, test, release is generated by default. Go releaser is used to execute the release job. Release workflow is triggered when a new tag is pushed to the repository.

- `.vscode`

  For vscode configurations, such as launch.json. The default launch configurations for debugging is generated by default.

